# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

## Writeup Template

### You can use this file as a template for your writeup if you want to submit it as a markdown file. But feel free to use some other method and submit a pdf if you prefer.

---

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report


[image0]: ./examples/laneLines_thirdPass.jpg "LaneLines"

[image1]: ./examples/grayscale.jpg "Grayscale"

---

### Reflection

### 1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.

My pipeline consisted of 6 steps.

 1. **Convert to Grayscale**:

    As for the scene understanding, here we donot really require color information hence converting them to Grayscale for reduction of the data to be worked with.

 2. **Apply Noise Filter**:

    Camera may have introduced some noise while taking the image/frame, hence all of such noise should be removed prior to using them as input. Such noises can be as simple as salt-paper noise or as complicated as gaussian white noise. Practically there isn't any way to find the type of the noise in the given image. But based on our understanding on environment in which image was captured we can apply certain denoise algorithms in order to suppress noise effects. Although Guassian Noise is very likly to be present on almost every image and usually in Computer Vision we could suppress most of the noisy pixels by applying Guassian Denoise (Filter) on the Image.

 3. **Find Edges**:

    As we received noise suppressed image, we can now look for the edge pixels in the entire image. For this I have used canny edge detector. Canny Edge detector first finds partial derivatives of each pixels with respect to X and Y dimension. After that it applies non-maximal suppression technique to suppress non-edge pixels based on the thresholds. There are two types of thresholds used here, Lower Threshold and Higher Threshold.

 4. **Select Region Of Interest**:

 5. **Find Lines with Hough Transform**:

 6. **Average/Extrapolate found Lane Lines**:

#### Modification to `draw_lines()` function


### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline

One potential shortcoming would be when there is no lane markings on the road, current pipeline fails. The reason behind this is obvious that we donot have edges captured from the road and hence no lines from hough transform.

Another shortcoming could be, when there is a curve on the lane, this fails to track curviness of the lane as we are extrapolating/averaging line into line polygon and hence we have final result will be lane line based on the average slope we received for all the lane lines.

There is one more shortcoming, as it takes region of interest in account, this unable to find other lanes on the road appart from on which car is moving.


### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

A possible improvement would be to use of `fitPoly()` to find best fit curve for all the found Lane Lines, to provide smooth curved lanes when they are curvy.

Another potential improvement could be to use of dnn based model for detecting lanes which will eliminate use of region of interest and also could find all the lanes visible, hence could be used to decide for lane switching too. Although there is one shortcoming to this, there are no such labeled dataset for this available. But this can be autogenerated by current pipeline, and later fed to any dnn model of object detection.



## References:
Canny Edge Detection: [link][1]



[1]: https://docs.opencv.org/3.1.0/da/d22/tutorial_py_canny.html

